README.md, before:

# ConventionalExtensions

ConventionalExtensions allows splitting up class definitions based on convention, similar to `ActiveSupport::Concern`'s use.

The entry point is to call `load_extensions` right after a class is originally defined:

```ruby
# lib/post.rb
class Post < SomeSuperclass
  load_extensions # Loads every Ruby file under `lib/post/extensions/*.rb`.
end
```

### Defining an extension

Since the loading above happens after the `Post` constant has been defined, we can reopen `Post` in an extension:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
class Post # <- Post is reopened here and so there's no superclass mismatch error
  def mailroom
    puts "you've got mail"
  end
end
```

Now, `Post.new.mailroom` works and `Post.instance_method(:mailroom).source_location` points to the extension file and line.

#### Defining a class method in an extension

Since we're reopening `Post` we can also define class methods directly:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/cool.rb
class Post
  def self.cool
    puts "really cool"
  end
end
```

Now, `Post.cool` works and `Post.method(:cool).source_location` points to the extension file and line.

Note, any class method macro extensions are now available within the top-level `Post` definition too:

```ruby
# lib/post.rb
class Post < SomeSuperclass
  load_extensions # Loads the `cool` extension…

  cool # …and now we can invoke the class method macro.
end
```

### Skipping class reopening boilerplate

ConventionalExtensions also supports implicit class reopening by automatically using `Post.class_eval` so you can skip `class Post`, like so:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
def mailroom
  puts "you've got mail"
end
```

With this, `Post.new.mailroom` still works and `Post.instance_method(:mailroom).source_location` points to the extension file and line.

### Resolve dependencies with load hoisting

In case you need to have more fine grained control over the loading, you can call `load_extensions` or `load_extension` from within an extension:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
load_extension :named
named :sup # We're depending on the `named` class method macro from the `named` extension, and hoisting the loading.

def mailroom
  …
end

# lib/post/extensions/named.rb
def self.named(key)
  puts key
end
```

### Supports `# frozen_string_literal: true`

Whether extensions use explicit or implicit class reopening, `# frozen_string_literal: true` is supported.

### Providing a base class that expects ConventionalExtensions loading

In case you're setting up a base class, where you're expecting subclasses to use extensions, you can do:

```ruby
class BaseClass
  extend ConventionalExtensions.load_on_inherited # This calls `load_extensions` automatically in the `inherited` hook.
end

class Subclass < BaseClass
  # No need to write `load_extensions` here, it's called already.
end
```

## A less boilerplate heavy alternative to `ActiveSupport::Concern` for Active Records

Typically, when writing an app domain model with `ActiveSupport::Concern` your object graph looks like this:

```ruby
# app/models/post.rb
class Post < ApplicationRecord
  include Cool, Mailroom
end

# app/models/post/cool.rb
module Post::Cool
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  class_methods do
    def cool
      puts "really cool"
    end
  end
end

# app/models/post/mailroom.rb
module Post::Mailroom
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    belongs_to :creator, class_name: "User"
  end

  def mailroom
    puts "you've got mail"
  end
end
```

Both `Post::Cool` and `Post::Mailroom` are immediately loaded (via Zeitwerk's file naming conventions) & included. Most often these concern modules are never referred to again, so they're practically implicit modules, yet defined with tricky DSL.

With ConventionalExtensions you'd write this instead:

```ruby
# app/models/post.rb
class Post < ApplicationRecord # ConventionalExtensions automatically loads extensions for Active Record models.
end

# app/models/post/extensions/cool.rb
class Post
  def self.cool
    puts "really cool"
  end
end

# app/models/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
class Post
  belongs_to :creator, class_name: "User"

  def mailroom
    puts "you've got mail"
  end
end
```

For multi-model concerns in `app/models/concerns`, you'd need modules or `ActiveSupport::Concern` to help with that.

## Installation

Install the gem and add to the application's Gemfile by executing:

    $ bundle add conventional_extensions

If bundler is not being used to manage dependencies, install the gem by executing:

    $ gem install conventional_extensions

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/kaspth/conventional_extensions.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Note an extra use case for concerns

README.md, after:

# ConventionalExtensions

ConventionalExtensions allows splitting up class definitions based on convention, similar to `ActiveSupport::Concern`'s use.

The entry point is to call `load_extensions` right after a class is originally defined:

```ruby
# lib/post.rb
class Post < SomeSuperclass
  load_extensions # Loads every Ruby file under `lib/post/extensions/*.rb`.
end
```

### Defining an extension

Since the loading above happens after the `Post` constant has been defined, we can reopen `Post` in an extension:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
class Post # <- Post is reopened here and so there's no superclass mismatch error
  def mailroom
    puts "you've got mail"
  end
end
```

Now, `Post.new.mailroom` works and `Post.instance_method(:mailroom).source_location` points to the extension file and line.

#### Defining a class method in an extension

Since we're reopening `Post` we can also define class methods directly:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/cool.rb
class Post
  def self.cool
    puts "really cool"
  end
end
```

Now, `Post.cool` works and `Post.method(:cool).source_location` points to the extension file and line.

Note, any class method macro extensions are now available within the top-level `Post` definition too:

```ruby
# lib/post.rb
class Post < SomeSuperclass
  load_extensions # Loads the `cool` extension…

  cool # …and now we can invoke the class method macro.
end
```

### Skipping class reopening boilerplate

ConventionalExtensions also supports implicit class reopening by automatically using `Post.class_eval` so you can skip `class Post`, like so:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
def mailroom
  puts "you've got mail"
end
```

With this, `Post.new.mailroom` still works and `Post.instance_method(:mailroom).source_location` points to the extension file and line.

### Resolve dependencies with load hoisting

In case you need to have more fine grained control over the loading, you can call `load_extensions` or `load_extension` from within an extension:

```ruby
# lib/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
load_extension :named
named :sup # We're depending on the `named` class method macro from the `named` extension, and hoisting the loading.

def mailroom
  …
end

# lib/post/extensions/named.rb
def self.named(key)
  puts key
end
```

### Supports `# frozen_string_literal: true`

Whether extensions use explicit or implicit class reopening, `# frozen_string_literal: true` is supported.

### Providing a base class that expects ConventionalExtensions loading

In case you're setting up a base class, where you're expecting subclasses to use extensions, you can do:

```ruby
class BaseClass
  extend ConventionalExtensions.load_on_inherited # This calls `load_extensions` automatically in the `inherited` hook.
end

class Subclass < BaseClass
  # No need to write `load_extensions` here, it's called already.
end
```

## A less boilerplate heavy alternative to `ActiveSupport::Concern` for Active Records

Typically, when writing an app domain model with `ActiveSupport::Concern` your object graph looks like this:

```ruby
# app/models/post.rb
class Post < ApplicationRecord
  include Cool, Mailroom
end

# app/models/post/cool.rb
module Post::Cool
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  class_methods do
    def cool
      puts "really cool"
    end
  end
end

# app/models/post/mailroom.rb
module Post::Mailroom
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    belongs_to :creator, class_name: "User"
  end

  def mailroom
    puts "you've got mail"
  end
end
```

Both `Post::Cool` and `Post::Mailroom` are immediately loaded (via Zeitwerk's file naming conventions) & included. Most often these concern modules are never referred to again, so they're practically implicit modules, yet defined with tricky DSL.

With ConventionalExtensions you'd write this instead:

```ruby
# app/models/post.rb
class Post < ApplicationRecord # ConventionalExtensions automatically loads extensions for Active Record models.
end

# app/models/post/extensions/cool.rb
class Post
  def self.cool
    puts "really cool"
  end
end

# app/models/post/extensions/mailroom.rb
class Post
  belongs_to :creator, class_name: "User"

  def mailroom
    puts "you've got mail"
  end
end
```

There are places where concerns are more suited:
* Multi-model concerns in `app/models/concerns`, you'd need modules to help with that.
* Needing to include multiple levels of modules and have them all inserted directly on the base class, concerns have this built in, but ConventionalExtensions can't support that. It's a rare use case nonetheless.

## Installation

Install the gem and add to the application's Gemfile by executing:

    $ bundle add conventional_extensions

If bundler is not being used to manage dependencies, install the gem by executing:

    $ gem install conventional_extensions

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/kaspth/conventional_extensions.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
